between numbers and his shirt came the
time of leave the posting e
friendly but still painful not yes
they can easily forget 70 years
of history and tomorrow is the last day
of the Italian presence in Africa
no nostalgia but a bit of melancholy
tempered by the awareness of having so much
more given than we received
to Somalis and other Africans
Italy does not leave the memory of one
greedy and exploitative colonial power
poor country, Somalia twice
Italy and with a population equal to
that of Naples alone
these visions show us some areas
flooded by the floods of the rivers but of
the lands are usually burned by the sun
fertile along the ju there is vice handsome o
in areas where Italian labor has
open 500 wells and irrigation canals
the aridity of the land forces three
one out of four Somalis living of the
pastoralism or hunting are nomadic
more slaves than masters of flocks and
of herds and are ill-suited to
turn into peasants even in the
places like in agricultural districts
created by the Italians along the rivers where
the black lands promise crops
abundant bananas
here is the most important crop the
Somali- type cavendish banana not
very large but fragrant and tasty
ripping the ground to the bush e
procuring water the Italians have
raised model bananas that give
and for a long time still they will give all
bananas for our tables
the monopoly company that insures bananas
the presence of the tropical fruit on the
Italian market follows the whole cycle
of production from palm to
retail cutting
helmets happens when they are still green
so that everything comes to
ripening during the period
necessary to do so
the consumer is not always a calculation
easy and also the packaging and the
transport presents difficulties because
the coral reef does not allow
direct boarding on ships is a matter of course
equipped with refrigeration systems that
ensure constant temperature during
the two weeks of travel
each of us Italians eats a kilo
and a half of bananas a year
it is a much lower consumption
to that of other European countries the
Somalia does not have ports to
mogadishu to chisimaio to merka brava le
ships cannot dock the transhipment
of men and things happens with
maoni burchielli boats